.TH "sane\-brother_mfp" "5" "20 Nov 2022" "@PACKAGEVERSION@" "SANE Scanner Access Now Easy"
.IX sane\-brother_mfp
.SH "NAME"
sane\-brother_mfp \- SANE backend for Brother Multifunction Printer/Scanners
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B sane\-brother_mfp
library implements a SANE (Scanner Access Now Easy) backend that provides
access to a number of machines by Brother. These are mainly in the DCP and MFC line of multi\-function
devices, but also include some dedicated scanners in the AD range.

.PP
The backend should be considered Beta quality at the moment as work is ongoing to decode tha various
options supported by the machine range.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-\-source
Selects the scanning method for the device. Valid options vary depending on the capabilities
of the device. Options available are:
.IR Flatbed ", " "Automatic Document Feeder" ", " "Automatic Document Feeder (one sided)"
and
.IR "Automatic Document Feeder (duplex)" .
.I Flatbed
is the default.

.TP
.BR \-\-mode
Selects the type of scan to perform. Most devices support:
.IR "Color" ", " "Gray" ", " "Gray (dithered)"
and
.IR "Lineart" .
.I Color
is the default.


.TP
.BR \-\-split\-resolution
When selected, activates the
.B \-\-x\-resolution
and
.B \-\-y\-resolution
options. This allows different resolutions to be selected for the horizontal and vertical.
When not selected, then the
.B \-\-resolution
option is activated and the same resolution is selected for both.



.TP
.BR \-\-resolution
Selects the resolution for both the horizontal and vertical directions of the scan.
The parameter is selected from a list of valid values for the device.


.TP
.BR \-\-x\-resolution ", " \-\-y\-resolution
Selects the individual resolutions for the horizontal and vertical directions of the scan.
The parameter is selected from a list of valid values for the device for each direction, and different
ranges for each option may be available.


.TP
.BR \-\-preview
Selects a resolution for both the x and y direction suitable for previewing.
The option will select the lowest available resolutions.


.TP
.BR \-\-tl\-x ", " \-\-tl\-y ", " \-\-br\-x ", " \-\-br\-y
Selects the area to scan. All measurements are in mm and are relative to the top, left hand corner
of the scan area. The
.B \-\-tl\-x
and
.B \-\-tl\-y
options specify the coordinates of the top left corner. The
.B \-\-br\-x
and
.B \-\-br\-y
options specify the coordinates of the bottom right corner.
The default values cover the maximum scan area for the selected source.


.TP
.BR \-\-brightness
Alters the brightness of the generated image when
.I Gray (dithered)
or
.I Lineart
modes are selected. Valid values are between \-50 and +50.
Default value is 0.

.TP
.BR \-\-contrast
Alters the contrast of the generated image when
.I Gray (dithered)
or
.I Lineart
modes are selected. Valid values are between \-50 and +50.
Default value is 0.


.TP
.BR \-\-compression
For devices that offer both raw and compressed (JPEG) scan image delivery, this option
is used to select which option is desired. If set, then JPEG will be used.
If not set, then whatever raw, uncompressed option is used.
The effect of unsetting this option will be to increase the volume of data sent from the
scanner with a small increase in image quality.
Default for this option is for it to be set.



.TP
.BR \-\-email-sensor ", " \-\-file-sensor ", " \-\-image-sensor ", " \-\-ocr-sensor
These options provide a readonly capability to sense when a soft scan button is selected on the
device. Typically, this would be a menu option intended to elicit a specific scanning operation
by the backend. To use this function, a monitoring daemon would be required such as
.BR scanbd (8).

If the corresponding operation has been requested on the device, querying this option would
show that it is set. Once the sensor has been queried, it will be reset on the device so that
the event can only be sensed once.


.SH "CONFIGURATION"
The contents of the
.I brother_mfp.conf
file contains information related to supported devices. Also there is a section to indicate
the location of network devices than cannot be auto detected.

.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I @CONFIGDIR@/brother_mfp.conf
The backend configuration file (see also description of
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
below).
.TP
.I @LIBDIR@/libsane\-brother_mfp.a
The static library implementing this backend.
.TP
.I @LIBDIR@/libsane\-brother_mfp.so
The shared library implementing this backend (present on systems that
support dynamic loading).

.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
This environment variable specifies the list of directories that may
contain the configuration file.  On *NIX systems, the directories are
separated by a colon (`:'), under OS/2, they are separated by a
semi-colon (`;').  If this variable is not set, the configuration file
is searched in two default directories: first, the current working
directory (".") and then in
.IR @CONFIGDIR@ .
If the value of the environment variable ends with the directory separator
character, then the default directories are searched after the explicitly
specified directories.  For example, setting
.B SANE_CONFIG_DIR
to "/tmp/config:" would result in directories
.IR tmp/config ,
.IR . ,
and
.I "@CONFIGDIR@"
being searched (in this order).
.TP
.B SANE_DEBUG_BROTHER_MFP
If the library was compiled with debug support enabled, this environment
variable controls the debug level for this backend. Valid values are 1 (IMPORTANT),
2 (SERIOUS), 3 (WARNINGS), 5 (DETAIL) and 6 (DEBUG). Selecting 5 or 6 will generate
a large amount of output.


.SH CREDITS

.TP
.I David R Roberts, GitHub user “davidar”
For his analysis of another Brother machine, which has led to me
getting a good head start on this process and for inspiring me to write this backend.

.TP
.I Various GitLab users
For their help in checkout out models of devices that I do not have access to and patiently
making PCAP captures and diag log output for me to look at!


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sane (7),
.BR sane\-usb (5),
.BR scanbd (8)
.br


.SH "AUTHOR"
Ralph Little
.RI < skelband@gmail.com >

.SH "BUGS"
There are no specific bugs to report for this backend.
